.TH TEAMDCTL 8 "2013-05-24" "libteam" "teamd control"
.SH NAME
teamdctl \(em team daemon control tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B teamdctl
.RI [ options ]
.IR "team_device command " [ command_args ...]
.br
.B teamdctl \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
teamdctl is a tool that allows a user to interact with a running teamd instance.
It defaults to using Unix Domain Sockets, but will fall back to using the D-Bus API,
to ensure reliable operation in all environments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Print help text to console and exit.
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-verbosity"
Increase output verbosity.
.TP
.B "\-o, \-\-oneline"
Force output to one line if possible.
.TP
.B "\-D, \-\-force-dbus"
Force to use D-Bus interface.
.TP
.BI "\-Z " address ", \-\-force-zmq " address
Force to use ZMQ interface. Possible address formats are "tcp://ip:port", "ipc://path" and others. Detailed description of ZMQ library is in page http://zguide.zeromq.org/page:all.
.TP
.B "\-U, \-\-force-usock"
Force to use UNIX domain socket interface. This is the default behavior.
.SH COMMAND
.TP
.B "config dump"
Dumps teamd JSON config.
.TP
.B "config dump noports"
Dumps teamd JSON configuration without "ports" section included.
.TP
.B "config dump actual"
Dumps teamd actual JSON configuration. It includes ports which are currently present.
.TP
.B "state dump" | "state"
Dumps teamd JSON state document.
.TP
.B "state view"
Prints out state of teamd parsed from JSON state document.
.TP
.BI "state item get " state_item_path
Finds state item in JSON state document and returns its value.

If PORTIFNAME in state_item_path has any sensitive character, use double quotation marks to escape it, like: ports."eth1.1".link_watches.up. To process state_item_path of 'state item set' is the same as here.
.TP
.BI "state item set " "state_item_path value"
Finds state item in JSON state document and sets its value by value parameter. This is available only for a limited number of paths:
.RS 7
.PP
.BR "setup.debug_level "\(em
User can set debug level. Higher level is more verbose.
.PP
.BR "ports.PORTIFNAME.runner.aggregator.selected "\(em
This is available for lacp runner. User can manually select the aggregator.
.PP
.BR "runner.active_port "\(em
This is available for activebackup runner. User can manually select the active port.
.RE
.TP
.BI "port add " portdev
Takes port device name as argument. Adds port device into team.
.TP
.BI "port remove " portdev
Takes port device name as argument. Removes port device from team.
.TP
.BI "port present " portdev
Takes port device name as argument. Checks if the port device is present in team.
.TP
.BI "port config update " "portdev portconfig-string"
Takes port device name as the first argument and JSON format configuration
string as the second argument. Updates port device configuration.
.TP
.BI "port config dump " portdev
Takes port device name as the first argument. Dumps port device JSON configuration to standard output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR teamd (8),
.BR teamnl (8),
.BR teamd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Jiri Pirko is the original author and current maintainer of libteam.
