.TH TEAMD 8 "2013-07-10" "libteam" "Team daemon"
.SH NAME
teamd \(em team network device control daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B teamd
.B \-k
.RB [ \-p
.IR pid_file ]
.RB [ \-g ]
.br
.B teamd
.B \-e
.RB [ \-p
.IR pid_file ]
.RB [ \-g ]
.br
.B teamd
.BI \-c " config_text"
.RB [ \-p
.IR pid_file ]
.RB [ \-gdrD ]
.RB [ \-Z
.IR address ]
.br
.B teamd
.BI \-f " config_file"
.RB [ \-p
.IR pid_file ]
.RB [ \-gdrD ]
.RB [ \-Z
.IR address ]
.br
.B teamd
.BR  \-h | \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
teamd is a daemon to control a given team network device, during runtime,
as a puppeteer controls a puppet. It uses libteam to communicate with the
kernel team device instance via Netlink sockets. The behaviour depends on
the selected runner and its configuration. This daemon is part of the
libteam project.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Print help text to console and exit.
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-version"
Print version information to console and exit.
.TP
.B "\-d, \-\-daemonize"
Daemonize after startup.
.TP
.B "\-k, \-\-kill"
Kill running daemon instance.
.TP
.B "\-e, \-\-check"
Return 0 if a daemon is already running.
.TP
.BI "\-f " filename ", \-\-config-file " filename
Load the specified configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-c " text ", \-\-config "text
Use given JSON format configuration string. If this option is present then \-f option will be
ignored.
.TP
.BI "\-p " filename ", \-\-pid-file " filename
Use the specified PID file.
.TP
.B "\-g, \-\-debug"
Turns on debugging messages. Repeating the option increases verbosity.
.TP
.B "\-l, \-\-log-output"
Force teamd log output to stdout, stderr or syslog.
.TP
.B "\-r, \-\-force-recreate"
Force team device recreation in case it already exists.
.TP
.B "\-o, \-\-take-over"
Take over the device if it already exists.
.TP
.B "\-N, \-\-no-quit-destroy"
This option also ensures that the team device is not removed after teamd finishes.
Repeating the option causes the ports to stay in place.
.TP
.BI "\-t " devicename ", \-\-team-dev " devicename
Use the specified team device name (overrides "device" key in the configuration).
.TP
.B "\-n, \-\-no-ports"
Start without ports, even if they are listed in the configuration.
.TP
.B "\-D, \-\-dbus-enable"
Enable D-Bus interface.
.TP
.BI "\-Z " address ", \-\-zmq-enable " address
Enable ZMQ interface. Possible address formats are "tcp://ip:port", "ipc://path" and others. Detailed description of ZMQ library is in page http://zguide.zeromq.org/page:all.
.TP
.B "\-U, \-\-usock-enable"
Enable UNIX domain socket interface. This is enabled by default.
.TP
.B "\-u, \-\-usock-disable"
Disable UNIX domain socket interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR teamdctl (8),
.BR teamd.conf (5),
.BR teamnl (8),
.BR bond2team (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Jiri Pirko is the original author and current maintainer of libteam.
